Antipattern docs (#1228)
informalsystems/apalache: docs/src/apalache/antipatterns.md

# Antipatterns

> This page collects known Apalache antipatterns (APs). APs are syntactic forms or specification approaches that, for one reason or another, have particularly slow/complex encodings. For a pattern to be an AP, there must exist a known, equivalent, efficient pattern. 

Author: The thing about antipatterns in this section is that they _are_ Apalache-specific. The problem is the evaluation of these expressions, which is tool-specific.

> This page collects known Apalache antipatterns (APs). APs are syntactic forms or specification approaches that, for one reason or another, have particularly slow/complex encodings. For a pattern to be an AP, there must exist a known, equivalent, efficient pattern. 

Reviewer: Yeah, I got that after reading further. Sorry I didn't update this comment. So it looks me like these are something like

```suggestion
This page collects known antipaterns (APs) when writing TLA+ for Apalache. In this context, APs are syntactic forms or specification approaches that, for one reason or another, have particularly slow/complex encodings for the target model checker. For a pattern to be an AP, there must exist a known, equivalent, efficient pattern. 
```

  THEN v
  ELSE 
    LET e == CHOOSE x \in S: TRUE
    IN G(F( S \ {e} ), e )
```

For example, one can implement `min/max` operators this way:
```tla
RECURSIVE min(_)
min(S) == 
  IF S == {}
  THEN Infinity
  ELSE 
    LET e == CHOOSE x \in S: TRUE
    IN LET minOther == min( S \ {e} )
    IN IF e < minOther THEN e ELSE minOther 
```

Apalache dislikes the use of the above, for several reasons. Firstly, since the operator is `RECURSIVE`, Apalache requires a predefined upper bound on unrolling, which means that the user must know, ahead of time, what the largest `|S|` is, for any set `S`, to which this operator is ever applied. 
In addition, computing `F` for a set `S` of size `n = |S|` requires `n` encodings of a `CHOOSE` operation, which can be considerably expensive in Apalache.
Lastly, Apalache also needs to encode all of the the `n` intermediate sets, `S \ {e1}`, `(S \ {e1}) \ {e2}`, `((S \ {e1}) \ {e2}) \ {e3}`, and so on.

The AP above can be replaced by a very simple pattern:
```tla
F(S) == FoldSet( G, v, S )
```

`FoldSet` (and `FoldSeq`) were introduced precisely for these scenarios, and should be used over `RECURSIVE + CHOOSE` in most cases.

## Incremental computation

> When defining an expression `Y` from `X`, instead of saying "`Y` is an expression with properties a,b,c,...", it is possible to define all the intermediate steps of transforming `X` into `Y`: "`X` is slightly changed into `X1` (e.g. by adding one element to a set, or via `EXCEPT`), which is changed into `X2`, etc. until `Xn = Y`". Doing this in Apalache is almost always a bad idea.

Author: Hmm, I see the issue with phrasing, but I'll reword it in a slightly different way.
